refactor: update style guide and rewrite output formatting page (#1231)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/docs/outputs/formatting.md

weight: 20
---

Previous guides introduced the [Output Fields of Falco Rules](/docs/rules/basic-elements/#output) and provided [Guidelines](/docs/rules/style-guide/#output-fields) on how to use them. This section specifically highlights additional global formatting options for your deployment, complementing the information previously provided.

First, note that you can always manually edit each rule to output more or fewer fields by simply removing or adding fields directly to the `output` within the rules' YAML file.

```yaml
# Original rule output
output: Executing binary not part of base image (proc_sname=%proc.sname user=%user.name process=%proc.name proc_exepath=%proc.exepath parent=%proc.pname command=%proc.cmdline terminal=%proc.tty %container.info)

# Remove output fields
output: %proc.sname %user.name

# Add more output fields again
output: %proc.sname %user.name %proc.is_exe_upper_layer
```

> However, if you want to add the same output field to every rule, doing so manually is tedious. You might seek a shortcut to generically add specific output fields to every rule. The following explanation details how to achieve this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, adding the same output field to multiple rules manually can be tedious. Thankfully Falco has a shortcut to make this eaier.

Falco inherently supports event decoration with associated [Container](https://falco.org/docs/reference/rules/supported-fields/#field-class-container) and [Kubernetes Fields](https://falco.org/docs/reference/rules/supported-fields/#field-class-k8s). To accomplish this, you'll need a special placeholder field in your rules' output fields, denoted as `%container.info`, and you'll need to run Falco with either the `-pk` or `-pc` command-line option. If your rule does not include `%container.info` no container or Kubernetes fields will be added.

> Do you have an even more customized use case? We have you covered! We also provide a `-p` flag where you can define custom additional output fields to be included in each rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an even more customized use case, Falco also provides a `-p` flag where you can define additional custom output fields to be included in each rule.
```

## Example Rule

```yaml

> - rule: Drop and execute new binary in container
>   desc: >
>     SKIPPED
>   condition: >

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- rule: Drop and execute new binary in container
  desc:
    SKIPPED
  condition:
```

`>` would introduce unnecessary `\n` and should be discouraged in examples.

    spawned_process
    and container
    and proc.is_exe_upper_layer=true 
    and not container.image.repository in (known_drop_and_execute_containers)
  output: Executing binary not part of base image (proc_sname=%proc.sname user=%user.name process=%proc.name proc_exepath=%proc.exepath parent=%proc.pname command=%proc.cmdline terminal=%proc.tty %container.info)
  priority: CRITICAL
  tags: [maturity_stable, container, process, mitre_persistence, TA0003, PCI_DSS_11.5.1]
```

### Scenario 1

> The rule outputs include `%container.info`, no command-line flags:

Reviewer: I don't know what we're saying here with the ", no command-line" flag - do we mean falco wasn't started with -pk or -pc?

If so, maybe it sounds better to say "The rule outputs include `%container.info`,  but Falco was started without the -pk or -pc command-line flags"

> The rule outputs include `%container.info`, no command-line flags:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rule outputs include `%container.info`, but Falco is started without any command line flags:
```

```bash 

> sudo /usr/bin/falco  -c /etc/falco/falco.yaml -r falco_rules_test.yaml -p

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sudo /usr/bin/falco  -c /etc/falco/falco.yaml -r falco_rules_test.yaml
```
?

Author: jeez Melissa ...

```

> Nevertheless, we continue to output `%container.id` and `%container.name`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case Falco will output `%container.id` and `%container.name` but no other container metatdat will be displayed: 
```

```bash
03:00:45.104332605: Critical Executing binary not part of base image (proc_sname=bash user=root process=sleep proc_exepath=/tmp/sleep parent=bash command=sleep 10000 terminal=34816 container_id=0fdb3cd5b5fc container_name=optimistic_newton)
```

### Scenario 2

> The rule outputs include `%container.info`, and to enable this functionality, you run Falco with the `-pc` flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rule outputs include `%container.info`, and Falco is started with the `-pc` flag: 
```

```bash 
sudo /usr/bin/falco  -c /etc/falco/falco.yaml -r falco_rules_test.yaml -pc
```

> Output includes the default container fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output includes the default container fields:
```

```bash
03:02:52.019002207: Critical Executing binary not part of base image (proc_sname=bash user=root process=sleep proc_exepath=/tmp/sleep parent=bash command=sleep 10000 terminal=34816 container_id=0fdb3cd5b5fc container_image=ubuntu container_image_tag=latest container_name=optimistic_newton)
```

### Scenario 3

> The rule outputs include `%container.info`, and to enable this functionality, you run Falco with the `-pk` flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rule outputs include `%container.info`, and Falco is started with the `-pk` flag:
```

```bash 
sudo /usr/bin/falco  -c /etc/falco/falco.yaml -r falco_rules_test.yaml -pk
```

> Output includes the default container plus Kubernetes fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output includes the default container fields and the default Kubernetes fields:
```

```bash
03:03:23.573329751: Critical Executing binary not part of base image (proc_sname=bash user=root process=sleep proc_exepath=/tmp/sleep parent=bash command=sleep 10000 terminal=34816 container_id=0fdb3cd5b5fc container_image=ubuntu container_image_tag=latest container_name=optimistic_newton k8s_ns=my_ns k8s_pod_name=my_pod_name)
```

### Scenario 4

> The rule outputs include `%container.info`, and you run Falco with the `-p` flag with providing custom output fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rule outputs include `%container.info`, and you run Falco with the `-p` flag while providing custom output fields:
```
